[CoreRenderingService] Add dev docs (#218630)
elastic/kibana: src/core/packages/rendering/browser/README.mdx

---
id: kibDevRenderingService
slug: /kibana-dev-docs/rendering-service
title: Core Rendering Service
description: This a service provided by SharedUX which abstracts the dependencies needed for a fully-loaded React context. 
tags: ['shared-ux', 'core', 'react', 'context']

> date: 2023-07-25

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2025-04-25
```

---

## Description

### Custom React elements require global context

> Kibana's browser-side architecture is an application composed of many different points where custom React elements can be mounted onto a DOM container. These elements have a self-contained component tree, and these and the process is often described as an "ad-hoc" render. Normally, a self-contained component would have no awareness of global context and core services, such as i18n and theming. That is why we need to wrap in a shared context providers, and somehow give those providers the service props they need.

Reviewer 2: Was not entirely following this part, so I made some edits based on my assumptions.

```suggestion
Kibana's browser-side architecture is an application composed of many different points where custom React elements can be mounted onto a DOM container. These elements have a self-contained component tree, this process is often described as an "ad-hoc" render. A self-contained component tree has no awareness of global context or stateful core services, such as i18n and theming which are often needed. That is why we use shared context providers.
```

### Adding the global context

> The public contract Core Rendering Service offers a wrapper to add context to your React elements. The wrapper uses its own internal state to handle the dependencies needed for each internal context provider, so developers do not have to worry about passing many services from the CoreStart contract. There is only a single service needed to pass down, which is the Core Rendering Service, which is available in the CoreStart contract as `core.rendering`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The public contract Core Rendering Service offers a wrapper to add context to your React elements. The wrapper uses its own internal state to handle the dependencies needed for each internal context provider, so developers do not have to worry about passing many services from the CoreStart contract. There is only a single service to pass down, the Core Rendering Service, which is available in the CoreStart contract as `core.rendering`.
```
